## Status
Models and LQY/LTR control of an overdriven AUV in Python.

This is a simulator of an overdriven AUV, called AIAPAEC, running in Python. In addition, Conda is used to properly install the necessary libraries.

Conda is an open-source package and environment management system that runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux. Conda quickly installs, runs, and updates packages and their dependencies. 

## Requirements
Ubuntu
```
    Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
    Description:	Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS
    Release:	22.04
    Codename:	jammy
```
Install Python
```Python 3.10.9```

Install the Anaconda 
```conda```
https://www.anaconda.com/download

## Install
To run the main program main.py the following modules must be installed:
```
numpy
matplotlib 
os
scipy 
```
The Python packages are automatically installed by using the command
``` pip install <path> ```

The following packages are installed in the following order:
```slycot 0.5.4
pip install slycot   or
conda install -c conda-forge slycot
https://pypi.org/project/slycot/
```

```control  0.9.4
pip install control
https://pypi.org/project/control/
```

The required Python libraries are necessary for the simulation, in any case check if you have the required libraries.

## Download the simulator




## Instrucciones para ejecutar el simulador
The simulator provides the modes of operation of the nonlinear, linearized model and the overdriven AUV control. To demonstrate the simulator operation, three cases will be considered:

1. Thruster distance configuration (dp1, dp2 and dp3).

2. Non Linear Model: for the visualization of the results the input signals are the forces applied by the thrusters in Newton (Tp1, Tp2, Tp).

3. Linearized Model: Once the non-linear model of the AUV is obtained, the system is linearized with certain initial values (X,U).

4. Controller: the controller calculations are developed using the constants generated by the linearized model but only taking the necessary values to control the linear velocities in surge (u), sway (v) and the angular velocity in Yaw (r).

* Suggestions: 


## License


## Credits


## Thanks

Thanks to the Universidad Nacional de San Agustin de Arequipa.

## Running Package

After you have installed the Python libraries and downloaded the AUV simulator package and placed it on your desktop you can launch it using the following commands:
```
cd PythonSimulatorAUV
python main.py

para visualizar las carpetas generadas 

ls
```

## References
* https://python-control.readthedocs.io/en/0.9.4/index.html
* https://python-control.readthedocs.io/en/0.9.4/classes.html
